Hello and welcome
to the final episode of The Arnon Show:
Visualizing the results.
In this episode it will be the witnesses
of the robustness of our model because we will see how our
predictions follow the trends of the Google set price.
So, it's going to be very easy tutorial on the
implementation side.
We are just going to use the plt.plot function to separately
plot the real Google stock price that we stored
in this real stock price variable and then the predicted
Google stock price that we stored in this
predicted stock price variable.
So, we will plot that separately.
We will give a title and different colors and a
label for the legend, and then just for the form
we will add a nice title to our chart and
some labels for the x- axis and the y- axis.
So, as I said, very easy.
We are going to do that in no time.
So, first, let's start by plotting the real
Google stock price.
As we said, we need to take our plt.plot function.
So we're basically using the plot function
from the matplotlib.pyplot library
that we imported here "matplotlib.plyplot" and we
gave it a shorter name "plt" for simplicity sake.
And now, inside this plt.plot function,
we first need to input the name of the variable
that contains the stored stock prices that we
want to plot.
And these are contained, as we said, in "real stock price".
So, we first need to input,
"real underscore stock underscore price" and there we go,
that's it for our first argument.
So, that could be enough, but then of course
we want to make it a nice chart and therefore
we can add some other arguments,
like the colors and labels.
So, let's start with the color.
The argument name for the color is "color" very simply.
So, color equals in quotes.
Choose your favorite color or a relevant color.
Well, since this is for the real stock price,
I am going to choose the color red.
Real in red, okay?
And then the last argument for the label
we're going to plot some legends on the chart
and we're going to use the plt.legend function
to display the legends.
And so the label for the real stock price
is going to be whatever you want,
let's say "real Google stock price".
Alright, so keep in mind that we're plotting
not the whole real Google stock price between
2012 and the first month of 2017,
we are plotting the Google stock price, the real one,
and the first month of January 2017
because we only have the predictions of January 2017,
so we just want to compare these two stock prices during
this first month, alright?
So real Google stock price of January 2017,
keep that in mind and now, let's proceed to our predictions.
So, basically it's the same.
I'm going to copy this.
We're going to use the plt.plot function
to plot this time not the real stock price,
but the predicted stock price variable that contains
the stored predictions of the stock price for January 2017.
And now we need to choose, of course, a different color.
This time we are going to plot it in blue and,
of course, a different label which is
going to be for predictions, well,
predicted Google stock price.
Alright, and now we have our two curves,
so we could basically stop here
but I want you to get a nice chart, so we'll just
add now a title to the chart, and therefore we use
the plt.title function and inside we just
need to input, in quotes, the title we want
to give to our chart and this is going to be,
let's say, "Google stock price prediction".
Perfect; plain and simple title.
Now, let's add a label to the x- axis
and then a label to the y- axis.
So, to the x- axis we need to use the plt.xlabel function
and same inside this function, we just need to input,
in quotes, the label that corresponds to the x- axis.
And what is this label?
That's, of course, the time.
You know we are plotting the stock price
from January third to January thirty first.
Therefore, the label of the x- axis is going to be time.
Great, now let's do the same for the label of the y- axis.
So, it's almost the same.
We need to replace "xlabel" by "ylabel" here
and what would you like to give to the y- axis as a label?
Well, very simply, you know it's the stock price
so we can say "Google stock price", alright?
Almost done.
Now, we should not forget to add plt.legend
without any input and that is just
to include the legends in the chart.
So, plt.legend with no input and finally, almost ready.
We end up with plt.show to display the graph and now,
congratulations, you are done with the whole implementation.
So almost 100 lines of code.
Don't worry, you will get 100 plus
lines of code in volume two.
But, here we almost did it.
But anyway, there was still a robust implementation because,
after all, we implemented a recurrent neural network.
I can't wait to visualize these results.
And there we are, now it's time for the real show.
I'm going to select all these lines for
the last section, visualizing the results.
And now, check this out.
Just executed and there we go.
I'm happy to introduce you to the
final Google stock price prediction results.
So I'm going to enlarge them, and here are the results.
So, first of all, we have the real Google stock price
in red and our predicted Google stock price in blue.
And we get this comparison of the
real and the predicted Google stock prices
for the whole month of January 2017.
This is the real Google stock price taken from
verified financial sources from the web.
And these are the predictions coming from
the Arnon model we implemented.
So now, let's comment on the results.
Well, first of all, in some parts of the predictions,
we see our predictions lagging behind the actual values.
You see that's exactly what's happening here.
Here we see a big spike, like a stock time singularity
and our predictions did not follow that,
but that is completely normal.
Our model just lags behind because it cannot react
to fast, nonlinear changes.
This spike here this stock time irregularity,
is indeed a fast, nonlinear change to which our
model cannot react properly.
But that's totally fine because, indeed, according to the
Brownian Motion Mathematical Concept
in financial engineering, the future variations
of the stock price are independent from the past.
And therefore, this future variation that we see here
around the spike, well, is a variation
that is indeed totally independent
from the previous stock prices, alright?
So, that's okay.
But on the other hand, here is the good news.
The good news is that our model reacts
okay to smooth changes, you know?
All these changes happening here are quite smooth
except here for this spike, to which, again
our model couldn't react but except for it
our recurrent neural network model reacts
pretty well to these smooth changes.
Typically, all of the changes happen in here.
So, that's a very good point.
Therefore, the conclusion is that in the parts
of the predictions containing some spikes,
well, our predictions lag behind the actual
values because our model cannot react
to fast, nonlinear changes.
And, on the other hand, for the parts
of the predictions containing smooth changes,
well our model reacts pretty well and manages to follow
the upward and downward trends.
It manages to follow the upward trend here,
the stable trend here, and again, the upward trend here.
Then, there is a downward trend here in the last
financial days of January, and it started to capture it.
So, really good results that actually make,
pretty much, sense in spite of the spikes.
Alright, and that's actually the end of this
recurrent neural network part three of the course.
Congratulations, again.
That was not an easy one.
We made a robust model,
which I was very happy to implement with you.
And now well, I guess it's time to move on to Volume two,
on to provide deep learning.
You are going to start to play with one of the most powerful
tools for deep learning and artificial intelligence.
I'm talking about Pytorch,
which is much more powerful than Keris,
thanks to a specific feature that it contains,
which are the dynamic graphs.
You are going to understand what they are,
but what I can tell you right now,
is that with these dynamic graphs,
we will be able to build some very powerful,
unsupervised, deep learning models.
And especially, I'm talking about the Bossman machines
and the encoders which will implement,
build two different recommended systems.
One that will predict the ratings given
by the users to movies,
and one other that will predict if a user
will like yes or no, a movie.
So I can't wait to see you in Volume two,
and until then, enjoy deep learning.